hello welcome again sound art in
line the YouTube channel of sound art
dot com mx today we will see what is rank
dynamic
let's see a very simple definition
when we talk about dynamic range
we talk about a from a distance or the
margin that exists between a maximum value
and a minimum value that we want to control
maximum and minimum value of that of the
amplitude of the sound that we are
processing
let's see some examples of values
of minimum values
that would be a good minimum value one
it could be what is called floor
noise background
of a sound system
another would be
the threshold of hearing is to say where
the sound begins to be heard
perceived as those would be possible
minimum values
now let's see examples of maximum values
one could be the level
before saturation
another would be
the reference level
and another could be the maximum level of
our signal
for example an instrument that is to say the
minimum and maximum level of change of
amplitude of sound intensity that
we are registering
what is the use of knowing the dynamic range?
to get better sound without
cleaner saturation to protect
our system
to avoid saturations in the recording
to better define the instruments in
a mix
we need to control it as with
dynamic processors like which
compressors and limiters
let's see this graph of an instrument
Recorded
we see that there are variations that we call
dynamic
in the intensity of the sound if we put
a line that tells us more or less the
maximum level
and we establish another line at level 0
let's say let's think what is the level
of noise floor or noise floor
which is also known as no flower
in this specific case this range that
it exists here
in what we call dynamic range is
say the distance that there is from this
minimum value until this peak until this
point that we have here that is the range
dynamic
if the saturation was a little
higher
for example there is the dynamic range
it would be up to this point from here until
this point
but right now for the purposes of a
control of the dynamics by means of
dynamic processors like compressors
we could say that our range
dynamic that we want to control is this
that goes from this minimum level up
this maximum level
This is how he works in the
compressors controlling this range
dynamic and what do we do with
this dynamic range reducing reducing it
let's reduce this dynamic range to
have a smaller distance between the value
minimum and the maximum value something that we
It helps a lot to give more power to
sound and also to do more
understandable for example the words
in one in the voice in a voice sung to
that works the compressors in another
moment
let's see how the compressor fits
so that we can get
this we do not have such a distance
big between these two points is still in
contact with sound art online